This Tablet was revealed after the martyrdom of the King of Martyrs and the Beloved of Martyrs (see God Passes By, Chapter VIII, paragraph beginning “In Iṣfahán Mullá Káẓim was beheaded…”) and was addressed to Shaykh Muḥammad Báqir, denounced by Bahá’u’lláh as the “Wolf.” In this Tablet Bahá’u’lláh refers to Mír Muḥammad Ḥusayn, the Imám Jum’ih of Iṣfáhán, surnamed the “She-Serpent,” who was Shaykh Muḥammad Báqir’s accomplice in the persecution of the Bahá’ís. (See God Passes By, Chapter XII, paragraph beginning “Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh, stigmatized by Bahá’u’lláh …”, paragraph beginning “In Iṣfáhán Mullá Kázim was beheaded…” and paragraph beginning “Nor should a review of the outstanding features of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings…”). The Epistle to the Son of the Wolf was addressed to Shaykh Muḥammad Taqíy-i-Najafi, the son of Shaykh Muḥammad Báqir.

He is the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise! The winds of hatred have encompassed the Ark of Baṭḥá, (Mecca) by reason of that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought. O Báqir! Thou hast pronounced sentence against them for whom the books of the world have wept, and in whose favor the scriptures of all religions have testified. Thou, who art gone far astray, art indeed wrapt in a thick veil. By God Himself! Thou hast pronounced judgment against them through whom the horizon of faith hath been illumined. Unto this bear witness They Who are the Dawning-Places of Revelation and the Manifestations of the Cause of thy Lord, the Most Merciful, Who have sacrificed Their souls and all that They possessed in His straight Path. The Faith of God hath cried everywhere, by reason of thy tyranny, and yet thou disportest thyself and art of them that exult. There is no hatred in Mine heart for thee nor for anyone. Every man of learning beholdeth thee, and such as are like thee, engulfed in evident folly. Hadst thou realized that which thou hast done, thou wouldst have cast thyself into the fire, or abandoned thine home and fled into the mountains, or wouldst have groaned until thou hadst returned unto the place destined for thee by Him Who is the Lord of strength and of might. O thou who art even as nothing! Rend thou asunder the veils of idle fancies and vain imaginings, that thou mayest behold the Daystar of knowledge shining from this resplendent Horizon. Thou hast torn in pieces a remnant of the Prophet Himself, and imagined that thou hadst helped the Faith of God. Thus hath thy soul prompted thee, and thou art truly one of the heedless. Thine act hath consumed the hearts of the Concourse on high, and those of such as have circled round the Cause of God, the Lord of the worlds. The soul of the Chaste One (Fáṭimih, daughter of Muḥammad) melted, by reason of thy cruelty, and the inmates of Paradise wept sore in that blessed Spot.

Judge thou fairly, I adjure thee by God. What proof did the Jewish doctors adduce wherewith to condemn Him Who was the Spirit of God, (Jesus) when He came unto them with truth?
