Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas
Summary of Contents

IThe Appointment of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá as the Successor of Bahá’u’lláh and Interpreter of His Teachings

ATurn towards Him

BRefer to Him

IIAnticipation of the Institution of the Guardianship

IIIThe Institution of the House of Justice

IVLaws, Ordinances and Exhortations

APrayer

BFasting

CLaws of Personal Status

DMiscellaneous Laws, Ordinances and Exhortations

VSpecific Admonitions, Reproofs and Warnings

VIMiscellaneous Subjects

Synopsis and Codification

IThe Appointment of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá as the Successor of Bahá’u’lláh and Interpreter of His Teachings

AThe faithful are enjoined to turn their faces towards the One “Whom God hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root.”

BThe faithful are bidden to refer whatsoever they do not understand in the Bahá’í writings to “Him Who hath branched from this mighty Stock.”

IIAnticipation of the Institution of the Guardianship

IIIThe Institution of the House of Justice

AThe House of Justice is formally ordained.

BIts functions are defined.

CIts revenues are fixed.

IVLaws, Ordinances and Exhortations

APrayer

1The sublime station occupied by the Obligatory Prayers in the Bahá’í Revelation.

2The Qiblih:

aIdentified by the Báb with “the One Whom God will make manifest.”

bThe appointment made by the Báb is confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh.

cBahá’u’lláh ordains His resting-place as the Qiblih after His passing.

dTurning to the Qiblih is mandatory while reciting the Obligatory Prayers.

3The Obligatory Prayers are binding on men and women on attaining the age of maturity, which is fixed at 15.

4Exemption from offering the Obligatory Prayers is granted to:

aThose who are ill.

bThose who are over 70.

cWomen in their courses provided they perform their ablutions and repeat a specifically revealed verse 95 times a day.

5The Obligatory Prayers should be offered individually.

6The choice of one of the three Obligatory Prayers is permissible.

7By “morning,” “noon” and “evening,” mentioned in connection with the Obligatory Prayers, is meant respectively the intervals between sunrise and noon, between noon and sunset, and from sunset till two hours after sunset.

8The recital of the first (long) Obligatory Prayer, once in twenty-four hours is sufficient.

9It is preferable to offer the third (short) Obligatory Prayer while standing.

10Ablutions:

aAblutions must precede the recital of the Obligatory Prayers.

bFor every Obligatory Prayer fresh ablutions must be performed.

cShould two Obligatory Prayers be offered at noon one ablution for both prayers is sufficient.

dIf water is unavailable or its use harmful to the face or hands, the repetition, five times, of a specifically revealed verse is prescribed.

eShould the weather be too cold the use of warm water is recommended.

fIf ablutions have been performed for other purposes, their renewal prior to the recital of the Obligatory Prayer is not required.

gAblutions are essential whether a bath has been taken previously or not.

11Determining the times fixed for Prayer:

aReliance on clocks is permissible in determining the times for offering the Obligatory Prayers.

bIn countries situated in the extreme north or south, where the duration of days and nights varies considerably, clocks and timepieces should be relied upon, without reference to sunrise or sunset.

12In case of danger, whether when traveling or not, for every Obligatory Prayer not offered a prostration and the recital of a specific verse is enjoined, to be followed by the repetition, eighteen times, of another specific verse.

13Congregational prayer is forbidden except the Prayer for the Dead.

14The recital, in its entirety, of the Prayer for the Dead is prescribed except for those unable to read, who are commanded to repeat the six specific passages in that Prayer.

15The Obligatory Prayer to be thrice repeated, three times a day, at morn, noon and evening, has been superseded by three Obligatory Prayers subsequently revealed.

16The Prayer of the Signs has been annulled, and a specifically revealed verse substituted for it. The recital of this verse is not however obligatory.

17Hair, sable, bones and the like do not nullify one’s prayer.

BFasting

1The sublime station occupied by fasting in the Bahá’í Revelation.

2The period of fasting commences with the termination of the Intercalary Days, and ends with the Naw-Rúz Festival.

3Abstinence from food and drink, from sunrise to sunset, is obligatory.

4Fasting is binding on men and women on attaining the age of maturity, which is fixed at 15.

5Exemption from fasting is granted to:

aTravelers

iProvided the journey exceeds 9 hours.

iiThose traveling on foot, provided the journey exceeds 2 hours.

iiiThose who break their journey for less than 19 days.

ivThose who break their journey during the Fast at a place where they are to stay 19 days are exempt from fasting only for the first three days from their arrival.

vThose who reach home during the Fast must commence fasting from the day of their arrival.

bThose who are ill.

cThose who are over 70.

dWomen who are with child.

eWomen who are nursing.

fWomen in their courses, provided they perform their ablutions and repeat a specifically revealed verse 95 times a day.

gThose who are engaged in heavy labor, who are advised to show respect for the law by using discretion and restraint when availing themselves of the exemption.

6Vowing to fast (in a month other than the one prescribed for fasting) is permissible. Vows which profit mankind are however preferable in the sight of God.

CLaws of Personal Status

1Marriage:

aMarriage is highly recommended but not obligatory.

bPlurality of wives is forbidden.

cMarriage is conditioned upon both parties having attained the age of maturity which is fixed at 15.

dMarriage is conditioned on the consent of both parties and their parents, whether the woman be a maiden or not.

eIt is incumbent upon both parties to recite a specifically revealed verse indicating their being content with the will of God.

fMarriage with one’s stepmother is forbidden.

gAll matters related to marriage with one’s kindred are to be referred to the House of Justice.

hMarriage with unbelievers is permitted.

iBetrothal:

iThe period of engagement must not exceed 95 days.

iiIt is unlawful to become engaged to a girl before she reaches the age of maturity.

jThe Dowry:

iMarriage is conditioned on payment of a dowry.

iiThe dowry is fixed at 19 mithqáls of pure gold for city dwellers, and 19 mithqáls of silver for village dwellers, depending on the permanent residence of the husband, and not of the wife.

iiiIt is forbidden to pay more than 95 mithqáls.

ivIt is preferable that a man content himself with the payment of 19 mithqáls of silver.

vIf the full payment of dowry is not possible the issue of a promissory note is permissible.

kShould either party, following the recital of the specifically revealed verse and the payment of the dowry, take a dislike to the other before the marriage is consummated, the period of waiting is not necessary prior to a divorce. The taking back of the dowry, however, is not permitted.

lThe husband must fix for his wife the time of his return when intending to travel. If, for a legitimate reason, he is prevented from returning at the appointed time, he must inform her and strive to return to her. If he fails to fulfill either condition, she must wait 9 months, after which she may remarry, though it is preferable for her to wait longer. If news of his death or murder reaches her, and the news is confirmed by general report or by 2 reliable witnesses, she may remarry after the lapse of 9 months.

mIf the husband departs without informing his wife of the date of his return, and is aware of the law prescribed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the wife may remarry after waiting a full year. If the husband is unaware of this law, the wife must wait until news of her husband reaches her.

nShould the husband, after the payment of the dowry, discover that the wife is not a virgin, the refund of the dowry and of the expenses incurred may be demanded.

oIf the marriage has been conditioned on virginity the refund of the dowry and of the expenses incurred may be demanded and the marriage invalidated. To conceal the matter, however, is highly meritorious in the sight of God.

2Divorce:

aDivorce is strongly condemned.

bIf antipathy or resentment develop on the part of either the husband or the wife, divorce is permissible, only after the lapse of one full year. The beginning and end of the year of waiting must be testified by two or more witnesses. The act of divorce should be registered by the judicial officer representing the House of Justice. Intercourse during this period of waiting is forbidden, and whoever breaks this law must repent and pay the House of Justice 19 mithqáls of gold.

cA further period of waiting after divorce has taken place is not required.

dThe wife who is to be divorced as a result of her unfaithfulness forfeits the payment of the expenses during the waiting period.

eRemarrying the wife whom one has divorced is permissible, provided she has not married another person. If she has, she must be divorced before her former husband can remarry her.

fIf at any time during the waiting period affection should recur, the marriage tie is valid. If this reconciliation is followed by estrangement and divorce is again desired, a new year of waiting will have to be commenced.

gShould differences arise between husband and wife while traveling, he is required to send her home, or entrust her to a dependable person, who will escort her there, paying her journey and her full year’s expenses.

hShould a wife insist on divorcing her husband rather than migrate to another country, the year of waiting is to be counted from the time they separate, either while he is preparing to leave, or upon his departure.

iThe Islamic law regarding remarriage with the wife whom one has previously divorced is abrogated.

3Inheritance:1

aInheritance falls into the following categories:

1.	children	1,080	out of	2,520	shares
2.	husband or wife	390	″	2,520	″
3.	father	330	″	2,520	″
4.	mother	270	″	2,520	″
5.	brother	210	″	2,520	″
6.	sister	150	″	2,520	″
7.	teacher	90	″	2,520	″
bThe share of the children, as allotted by the Báb, is doubled by Bahá’u’lláh, and an equal portion correspondingly reduced from each of the remaining beneficiaries.


iIn cases where there is no issue the share of the children reverts to the House of Justice to be expended on orphans and widows and for whatever will profit mankind.

iiIf the son of the deceased be dead and leave issue, these will inherit the share of their father. If the daughter of the deceased be dead and leave issue, her share will have to be divided into the seven categories specified in the Most Holy Book.

dShould one leave offspring but either part or all of the other categories of inheritors be nonexistent, two-thirds of their shares reverts to the offspring and one-third to the House of Justice.

eShould none of the specified beneficiaries exist, two-thirds of the inheritance reverts to the nephews and nieces of the deceased. If these do not exist, the same share reverts to the aunts and uncles; lacking these, to their sons and daughters. In any case the remaining third reverts to the House of Justice.

fShould one leave none of the aforementioned heirs, the entire inheritance reverts to the House of Justice.

gThe residence and the personal clothing of the deceased father pass to the male not to the female offspring. If there be several residences the principal and most important one passes to the male offspring. The remaining residences will together with the other possessions of the deceased have to be divided among the heirs. If there be no male offspring two-thirds of the principal residence and the personal clothing of the deceased father will revert to the female issue and one-third to the House of Justice. In the case of the deceased mother all her used clothing is to be equally divided amongst her daughters. Her unworn clothing, jewels and property must be divided among her heirs, as well as her used clothing if she leaves no daughter.

hShould the children of the deceased be minors their share should either be entrusted to a reliable person or to a company for purposes of investment, until they attain the age of maturity. A share of the interest accrued should be assigned to the trustee.

iThe inheritance should not be divided until after the payment of the Ḥuqúqu’lláh (The Right of God), of any debts contracted by the deceased and of any expenses incurred for a befitting funeral and burial.

jIf the brother of the deceased is from the same father he will inherit his full allotted share. If he is from another father he will inherit only two-thirds of his share, the remaining one-third reverting to the House of Justice. The same law is applicable to the sister of the deceased.

kIn case there are full brothers or full sisters, brothers and sisters from the mother’s side do not inherit.

lA non-Bahá’í teacher does not inherit. If there should be more than one teacher, the share allotted to the teacher is to be equally divided among them.

mNon-Bahá’í heirs do not inherit.

nAside from the wife’s used clothing and gifts of jewelry or otherwise which have been proven to have been given her by her husband, whatever the husband has purchased for his wife are to be considered as the husband’s possessions to be divided among his heirs.

oAny person is at liberty to will his possessions as he sees fit provided he makes provisions for the payment of Ḥuqúqu’lláh and the discharge of his debts.

DMiscellaneous Laws, Ordinances and Exhortations

1Miscellaneous Laws and Ordinances:

aPilgrimage

bḤuqúqu’lláh

cEndowments

dThe Mashriqu’l-Adhkár

eDuration of the Bahá’í Dispensation

fBahá’í Festivals

gThe Nineteen Day Feast

hThe Bahá’í Year

iThe Intercalary Days

jThe age of maturity

kBurial of the dead

lEngaging in a trade or profession is made obligatory and is exalted to the rank of worship

mObedience to government

nEducation of children

oThe writing of a testament

pTithes (Zakát)

qRepetition of the Greatest Name 95 times a day

rThe hunting of animals

sTreatment of female servants

tThe finding of lost property

uDisposition of treasure trove

vDisposal of objects held in trust

wManslaughter

xDefinition of just witnesses

yProhibitions:

iInterpretation of the Holy Writ

iiSlave trading

iiiAsceticism

ivMonasticism

vMendicancy

viPriesthood

viiUse of pulpits

viiiThe kissing of hands

ixConfession of sins

xPlurality of wives

xiIntoxicating drinks

xiiOpium

xiiiGambling

xivArson

xvAdultery

xviMurder

xviiTheft

xviiiHomosexuality

xixCongregational prayer, except for the dead

xxCruelty to animals

xxiIdleness and sloth

xxiiBackbiting

xxiiiCalumny

xxivCarrying arms unless essential

xxvUse of public pools in Persian baths

xxviEntering a house without the owner’s permission

xxviiStriking or wounding a person

xxviiiContention and conflict

xxixMuttering sacred verses in the street

xxxPlunging one’s hand in food

xxxiShaving one’s head

xxxiiGrowth of men’s hair beyond the lobe of the ear

2Abrogation of specific laws and ordinances of previous Dispensations, which prescribed:

aDestruction of books

bProhibition of the wearing of silk

cProhibition of the use of gold and silver utensils

dLimitation of travel

eOffering priceless gifts to the Founder of the Faith

fProhibition on questioning the Founder of the Faith

gProhibition against remarrying one’s divorced wife

hPenalizing whoever causes sadness to his neighbor

iProhibition of music

jLimitations upon one’s apparel and beard

kUncleanliness of divers objects and peoples

lUncleanliness of semen

mUncleanliness of certain objects for purposes of prostration

3Miscellaneous Exhortations:

aTo associate with the followers of all religions with fellowship

bTo honor one’s parents

cNot to wish for others what one does not wish for one’s self

dTo teach and propagate the Faith after the ascension of its Founder

eTo assist those who arise to promote the Faith

fNot to depart from the Writings or to be misled by those who do

gTo refer to the Holy Writ when differences arise

hTo immerse one’s self in the study of the Teachings

iNot to follow one’s idle fancies and vain imaginations

jTo recite the holy verses at morn and at eventide

kTo recite the holy verses melodiously

lTo teach one’s children to chant the holy verses in the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár

mTo study such arts and sciences as benefit mankind

nTo take counsel together

oNot to be indulgent in carrying out the statutes of God

pTo repent to God of one’s sins

qTo distinguish one’s self through good deeds

iTo be truthful

iiTo be trustworthy

iiiTo be faithful

ivTo be righteous and fear God

vTo be just and fair

viTo be tactful and wise

viiTo be courteous

viiiTo be hospitable

ixTo be persevering

xTo be detached

xiTo be absolutely submissive to the Will of God

xiiNot to stir up mischief

xiiiNot to be hypocritical

xivNot to be proud

xvNot to be fanatical

xviNot to prefer one’s self to one’s neighbor

xviiNot to contend with one’s neighbor

xviiiNot to indulge one’s passions

xixNot to lament in adversity

xxNot to contend with those in authority

xxiNot to lose one’s temper

xxiiNot to anger one’s neighbor

rTo be closely united

sTo consult competent physicians when ill

tTo respond to invitations

uTo show kindness to the kindred of the Founder of the Faith

vTo study languages for the furtherance of the Faith

wTo further the development of cities and countries for the glorification of the Faith

xTo restore and preserve the sites associated with the Founders of the Faith

yTo be the essence of cleanliness:

iTo wash one’s feet

iiTo perfume one’s self

iiiTo bathe in clean water

ivTo cut one’s nails

vTo wash soiled things in clean water

viTo be stainless in one’s dress

viiTo renew the furnishings of one’s house

VSpecific Admonitions, Reproofs and Warnings
Addressed to:

1The entire human race

2Crowned heads of the world

3The concourse of ecclesiastics

4The Rulers of America and Presidents of the Republics therein

5William I, King of Prussia

6Francis Joseph, Emperor of Austria

7The people of the Bayán

8Members of parliaments throughout the world

VIMiscellaneous Subjects

1The transcendent character of the Bahá’í Revelation

2The exalted station of the Author of the Faith

3The supreme importance of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, “The Most Holy Book”

4The doctrine of the “Most Great Infallibility”

5The twin duties of recognition of the Manifestation and observance of His Laws, and their inseparability

6The end of all learning is the recognition of Him Who is the Object of all knowledge

7The blessedness of those who have recognized the fundamental verity “He shall not be asked of His doings”

8The revolutionizing effect of the “Most Great Order”

9The selection of a single language and the adoption of a common script for all on earth to use: one of two signs of the maturity of the human race

10Prophecies of the Báb regarding “He Whom God will make manifest”

11Prediction relating to opposition to the Faith

12Eulogy of the king who will profess the Faith and arise to serve it

13The instability of human affairs

14The meaning of true liberty

15The merit of all deeds is dependent upon God’s acceptance

16The importance of love for God as the motive of obedience to His Laws

17The importance of utilizing material means

18Eulogy of the learned among the people of Bahá

19Assurance of forgiveness to Mírzá Yaḥyá should he repent

20Apostrophe addressed to Ṭihrán

21Apostrophe addressed to Constantinople and its people

22Apostrophe addressed to the “banks of the Rhine”

23Condemnation of those who lay false claim to esoteric knowledge

24Condemnation of those who allow pride in their learning to debar them from God

25Prophecies relating to Khurásán

26Prophecies relating to Kirmán

27Allusion to Shaykh Aḥmad-i-Aḥsá’í

28Allusion to the Sifter of Wheat

29Condemnation of Ḥájí Muḥammad-Karím Khán

30Condemnation of Shaykh Muḥammad-Ḥasan

31Allusion to Napoleon III

32Allusion to Siyyid Muḥammad-i-Iṣfahání

33Assurance of aid to all those who arise to serve the Faith
